# DSCI 551 Quiz 1

Instructions:

 - All parts are equally weighted.
 - If applicable, show your work rather than just writing down the final answer.
 - You are welcome to clone this repo and work locally or edit this file directly in your web browser. If working in the browser, you're advised to commit regularly to avoid losing your work (e.g. by accidentally closing your browser window).
 - Time: 30 minutes.

# Part 1

The questions below will refer to the following probability distribution:

| x | P(X=x) |
|---|--------|
| 0 |  0.2   |
| 1 |  0.2   |
| 2 |  0.6   |


### 1(a)
<!-- rubric={reasoning:1} -->

Find E[X]

_answer here_

**Solution**: 0(0.2)+1(0.2)+2(0.6)=1.4

### 1(b)
<!-- rubric={reasoning:1} -->

What is the distribution (pmf) of Y=2-X ?

| y | P(Y=y) |
|---|--------|

_answer by extending the table here_

**Solution**:

| y | P(Y=y) |
|---|--------|
| 0 | 0.6 |
| 1 | 0.2 | 
| 2 | 0.2 |

### 1(c)
<!-- rubric={reasoning:1} -->

Find P(X=1 | X>0)

_answer here_

**Solution**: 0.2/(0.2+0.6)=1/4

# Part 2

The questions below will refer to the following joint probability distribution:

| | | **X**|  | |
|-|-|-|-|-|
| |\\ |1  |2 |  3|
|**Y** |1|0.1|0.2 |0.3|
| |2| 0.4|0.0|0.0|

### 2(a)
<!-- rubric={reasoning:1} -->

Find P(Y<X)

_answer here_

**Solution**: 0.2+0.3=0.5

### 2(b)
<!-- rubric={reasoning:1} -->

Find the marginal distribution of Y.

_answer here_

**Solution**: P(Y=1)=0.6, P(Y=2)=0.4

### 2(c)
<!-- rubric={reasoning:1} -->

Find the conditional distribution of Y given X=1.

_answer here_

**Solution**: P(Y=1|X=1)=0.2, P(Y=2|X=1)=0.8

### 2(d)
<!-- rubric={reasoning:1} -->

Find P(X+Y=3)

**Solution**: 0.2+0.4=0.6

# Part 3

For each the following, state whether the situation is possible or impossible. **Very briefly justify your answer.**

### 3(a)
<!-- rubric={reasoning:1} -->

A random variable with negative variance.

**Solution**: impossible, variance is the expected value of the squared deviation, which can't be negative.

### 3(b)
<!-- rubric={reasoning:1} -->

Two random variables with negative covariance.

**Solution**: possible, this means the variables are negatively correlated (one being larger tends to correspond with the other being smaller)

### 3(c)
<!-- rubric={reasoning:1} -->

Two events A and B such that P(A,B) > P(A|B).

**Solution**: impossible, P(A,B)=P(A|B)P(B) and we can't have P(B)>1.
